[Term Entry] Adding Selection-Sort.md in Algorithm folder (#2635)
Codecademy/docs: content/general/concepts/algorithm/terms/selection-sort/selection-sort.md

---
Title: 'Selection-Sort Algorithm'
Description: 'Returns a sorted array'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Algorithms'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

**Selection sort** is an in-place comparison sorting algorithm. It divides the input array into two parts: the sorted subarray at the beginning and the unsorted subarray at the end. The algorithm repeatedly selects the minimum (or maximum) element from the unsorted subarray and swaps it with the first unsorted element, expanding the sorted subarray by one element.

## Explanation

> A brief explanation of `Selection Sort`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A brief explanation of the selection sort algorithm:
```

- Selection sort is an in-place comparison sorting algorithm: This means that selection sort does not require additional memory beyond the input array, and elements are compared to determine their relative order.

- It divides the input array into two parts: Conceptually, selection sort divides the array into two subarrays: the sorted subarray at the beginning and the unsorted subarray at the end. Initially, the sorted subarray is empty, and the unsorted subarray contains all the elements.

- The algorithm repeatedly selects the minimum (or maximum) element: In each iteration, selection sort identifies the minimum (or maximum) element from the unsorted subarray. The selection process involves scanning the unsorted subarray to find the smallest (or largest) element.

> - It swaps the selected element with the first unsorted element: Once the minimum (or maximum) element is identified, selection sort swaps it with the first element of the unsorted subarray. This action effectively expands the sorted subarray by one element and reduces the unsorted subarray's size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It swaps the selected element with the first unsorted element: Once the minimum (or maximum) element is identified, selection sort swaps it with the first element of the unsorted subarray. This action effectively expands the sorted subarray by one element and reduces the unsorted subarray by one.
```

- The process continues until the entire array is sorted: Selection sort repeats the selection and swapping steps for the remaining unsorted elements until the entire array becomes sorted. The sorted subarray gradually grows, and the unsorted subarray shrinks until no elements remain in the unsorted portion.

> 

Reviewer: It would be helpful to also include the big O time complexity of the algorithm

**Graphical representation of Selection Sort:**

> ![Selection Sort](SelectionSort.png)

Reviewer: You need to move the image to the folder below and use this address in the parentheses

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/SelectionSort.png

## Example

The following example written in [Java](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-java) shows an implementation of selection sort and then uses it to sort `{5, 3, 4, 1, 2}`:

```java
public class SelectionSort {
    public static void selectionSort(int[] array) {
        int n = array.length;
        for (int i = 0; i < n - 1; i++) {
            int minIndex = i;
            for (int j = i + 1; j < n; j++) {
                if (array[j] < array[minIndex]) {
                    minIndex = j;
                }
            }
            int temp = array[minIndex];
            array[minIndex] = array[i];
            array[i] = temp;
        }
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        int[] array = {5, 3, 4, 1, 2};
        selectionSort(array);
        System.out.println("Sorted array: ");
        for (int i : array) {
            System.out.print(i + " ");
        }
    }
}
```

The output for the above code is:

```shell
Sorted array: 1 2 3 4 5
```

> The `selectionSort` method in the code takes an integer `array` as input and performs the selection sort algorithm on it. It initializes a variable `n` with the length of the array. The outer loop iterates through the elements from the first to the second-to-last element of the array, representing the boundary of the unsorted subarray.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `selectionSort` function in the code takes an integer `array` as input and initializes a variable `n` with the length of the array. The outer loop iterates through the elements from the first to the second-to-last element of the array, representing the boundary of the unsorted subarray.
```
